DOCS-9280 Azure Data Lake Example (#1111)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: azure-data-lake/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/azure-data-lake-connector-examples.adoc

* Replace the variables with their values in the code.
* Provide the values for each variable in a properties file and then refer to that file from the connector configuration.

For information about the benefits of using property placeholders and how to configure them, see xref:introduction/intro-connector-configuration-overview.adoc[Anypoint Connector Configuration].

[[create-file-system-example]]
== Create a File System

This example shows you how to create a file system in Azure Data Lake Storage. 

=== Steps to Create a File System

. <<set-up-flow,Set up the Flow>>.
. <<configure-file-system-operation,Configure the File System Operation>>.
. <<xml-creating-file-system,Optionally, copy and paste the XML>> for the flow in to the *Configuration XML* tab.

> 

Reviewer: To avoid nesting to four levels, I wonder if we could not put the uber-steps into the topic set intro:

== Create a File System

The following example shows you how to create a file system in Azure Data Lake Storage, including setting up the app flow, configuring operation, and optionally pasting the flow XML to the *Configuration XML* tab.

=== Set Up the App Flow

[[set-up-flow]]

> ==== Set up the App Flow

Reviewer: One exception to lowercasing prepositions of 2-4 letters in titles is when those prepositions are part of compound verb, such as "set up"; then we use verb-rules instead of prep-rules. Make sense?

```suggestion
==== Set Up the App Flow
```

. Create a new Mule project in Studio.

> . In the *Mule Palette* view, search for `http` and select the *Listener* operation:

Reviewer: fix typo:
```suggestion
. In the *Mule Palette* view, search for `http` and select the *Listener* operation.
```

. Drag the *Listener* operation onto the Studio canvas.
. In the *Listener* configuration, click *+* next to the *Connector configuration* field to add a global element.
. Accept the defaults and click *OK*.
+
image::azure-data-lake-create-file-system-setting-up-the-flow-1.png[HTTP Listener with default values]
+

> . In the *General* properties tab, set the *Path* field to `create-fs`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *General* properties tab, set the *Path* field to `create-fs`:
```

. In the configuration screen for the operation, click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to access the global element configuration fields.

> . On the *General* tab, in *Connection*, select the authentication method to configure and enter all the required values, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the *General* tab, in *Connection*, select the authentication method to configure and enter all the required values:
```

+
image::azure-data-lake-create-file-system-filling-values-1.png[Create File System Config with Shared Access Signature connection values]
+
. Click *OK*.

> . On the *General* properties tab, in the *File System* field, enter a name for the file system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the *General* properties tab, in the *File System* field, enter a name for the file system:
```

[[create-path-example]]
== Create a Path

This example shows you how to create a path in Azure Data Lake Storage. 

=== Steps to Create a Path

. <<set-up-create-path-flow,Set Up the Flow>>

> . <<configure-create-path,Configure the Create Path operation>>.

Reviewer: ditto earlier suggestion

. <<create-path-xml,Optionally, copy and paste the XML>> for the flow in to the *Configuration XML* tab.

[[set-up-create-path-flow]]

> ==== Set up the App Flow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Set Up the App Flow
```

. Accept the defaults and click *OK*.

> . In the *General* properties tab, set the *Path* field to `create-path`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *General* properties tab, set the *Path* field to `create-path`:
```

image::azure-data-lake-create-path-setting-up-the-flow-2.png[HTTP Listener General properties tab]

[[configure-create-path]]
==== Configure the Create Path operation

Follow these steps to create a file or directory on the provided file system:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, search for `azure` and select the *Create/Rename Path* operation.
. Drag the *Create/Rename Path* operation from the Studio canvas onto the *Listener* flow.
. In the *Create/Rename Path* configuration, click *+* next to the *Connector Configuration* field to add a connection configuration.

> . . On the *General* tab, in *Connection*, select the authentication method to configure and enter all the required values, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the *General* tab, in *Connection*, select the authentication method to configure and enter all the required values:
```

+
image::azure-data-lake-create-file-system-filling-values-1.png[Create File System Config with Shared Access Signature connection values]
+
. Click *OK*.
. In the *File System* field, enter the value for your target file system. +

> The file system must exist, or an error is thrown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the file system does not exist, an error is thrown.
```

. In *Path*, enter your desired path name.

> . In *Resource*, enter either `file` or `directory`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In *Resource*, enter either `file` or `directory`:
```

</mule>
----

[[update-path-example]]

> == Configure Update Path Operations With Actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configure Update Path Operations with Actions
```

In this example, you configure two *Update Path* operations:

* The first *Update Path* operation is configured with an *append* action to append contents to an existing file on the file system.
* The second *Update Path* operation is configured with a *flush* action to flush the contents of an existing file on the file system.

> === Steps to Update a Path

Reviewer: For this topic, the uber steps could be incorporated as sentences following each bullet?

. <<update-path-flow,Set up the flow>>.
. <<add-file-connector,Add and configure a File Connector Read operation>>.
. <<configure-set-variable,Configure a Set Variable component>>.
. <<update-path-append,Configure an *Update Path* operation with an *append* action>>.
. <<configure-update-path-flush,Configure an *Update Path* operation with a *flush* action>>.

[[update-path-flow]]

> ==== Set up the App Flow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Set Up the App Flow
```

Follow these steps to create and configure an HTTP *Listener* source to initiate the flow each time it receives a request on the configured host and port:

. Create a new Mule project in Studio.
. In the *Mule Palette* view, search for `http` and select the *Listener* operation:

> . Drag the *Listener* operation onto the Studio canvas.

Reviewer: Is this colon typo in the template?

. In the *Listener* configuration, click *+* next to the *Connector configuration* field to add a global element.
. Accept the defaults and click *OK*.
. In the *General* properties tab, set the *Path* field to `update-path`:

image::azure-data-lake-update-path-setting-up-the-flow-2.png[Listener General properties configuration]

[[add-file-connector]]
==== Add and Configure File Connector

Add File Connector to your project and configure the *Read* operation to read files on the file system:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In *Add Modules to Project*, type `file connector` in the search field.
. Click *File Connector* in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.

> . Click *Finish*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Finish*:
```
...IF the image shows the result of clicking....

+
image::azure-data-lake-update-path-adding-file-connector.png[Add File Connector from Exchange to your flow]
+
. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *File > Read* and drag the *Read* operation onto the flow.
. In *General* properties tab for the *Read* operation, click *+* next to the *Connector Configuration* field to add a connection configuration.
. Enter the values and click *OK*.
. In the *General* properties for the *Read* operation, enter the absolute path to the file upload in *File Path*:
+
image::azure-data-lake-update-path-using-the-file-connector-2.png[Read operation General properties configuration]

[[configure-set-variable]]
==== Configure the Set Variable Component

Configure a *Set Variable* component to store and use a variable later in the flow:

. From the *Mule Palette* view, search for `set variable` and drag *Set Variable* next to the *Read* operation on the Studio canvas.
. In the *General* properties tab, enter these values:
* *Name* +
`fileSize`
* *Value* +

> Enter the Mule Expression `&#35;[attributes.size]`. +

Reviewer: The intro to these list items already has "Enter," so how about...
```suggestion
`&#35;[attributes.size]`+
```

This saves the length of the file variable for the next operations.

> image::azure-data-lake-update-path-using-the-file-connector-3.png[General properties configuration for the Set Variable component]

Reviewer: Should a colon point to the image?

[[update-path-append]]

> ==== Configure the Update Path Operation With Append

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Configure the Update Path Operation with Append
```

Configure the *Update Path* operation to add an *append* action so you can append contents to a file:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, search for `azure` and select the Azure Data Lake Storage Connector *Update Path* operation.

> . Drag the *Update Path* operation from the *Mule Palette* onto the *Listener* flow, next to the *Set Variable* component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Drag the *Update Path* operation from the *Mule Palette* view onto the *Listener* flow, next to the *Set Variable* component.
```

> . In the *Update Path* *General* configuration properties pane, select the connection configuration for the operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *General* configuration properties pane of *Update Path*, select the connection configuration for the operation.
```
Please doublecheck this for accuracy; a better alternative might be?
```suggestion
. In the *General* area of the *Update Path* configuration properties pane, select the connection configuration for the operation.
```

. In the *General* properties tab, enter the following values:
* *File System* +

> Value for your target file system.

Reviewer: no period
```suggestion
Value for your target file system
```

* *Path* +

> Value for your target path.

Reviewer: ditto
```suggestion
Value for your target path
```

* *Action* +
`append`
* *Position* +
`0`
* *Content Length* +

> Enter the Mule expression `&#35;[vars.fileSize]`.

Reviewer: ditto prev. for same text earlier:
```suggestion
`&#35;[vars.fileSize]`
```

* *Content* +
`payload`
+
image::azure-data-lake-update-path-using-update-append.png[General configuration properties with example values for the Update Path operation with the `append` action]
+
. Save the project.

[[configure-update-path-flush]]

> ==== Configure the Update Path Operation With Flush

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Configure the Update Path Operation with Flush
```

Configure the *Update Path* operation to add a *flush* action so you can flush the contents of a file:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, search for `azure` and select the Azure Data Lake Storage Connector *Update Path* operation.
. Drag the *Update Path* operation from the Studio canvas onto the *Listener* flow, next to the *Update Path* operation that you created in <<update-path-append,the step for append>>.

> . In the *Update Path* *General* configuration properties pane, select the connection configuration for the operation.

Reviewer: See prev. suggestions for this same sentence earlier....

> . In the *General* properties tab, enter the following values:

Reviewer: ditto prev edits to similar texts earlier, if you have time

</mule>
----

[[error-handling-example]]
== Implement Error Handling

> This section shows you how to implement simple error handling on a flow that uses Azure Data Lake Storage Connector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section shows you how to implement simple error handling on a flow that uses Anypoint Connector for Azure Data Lake Storage.
```

> . In any flow, from the *Mule Palette* view, select *Core > On Error Continue* and drag it to the *Error Handling* section of the flow, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In any flow, from the *Mule Palette* view, select *Core > On Error Continue* and drag it to the *Error Handling* section of the flow:
```

+
image::azure-data-lake-error-handling-setting-up-1.png[Drag the On Error Continue component to the flow]
+
. From the *Mule Palette* view, drag *Core > Transform Message* to the flow:
+
image::azure-data-lake-error-handling-setting-up-2.png[Drag the Transform Message component to the flow]
+
. In *Mule Palette*, search for `logger` and drag the *Logger* component to the right of *Transform Message*.
. In the *General* properties tab for the *Logger* component, enter the following values:
+
----
 output application/json
 ---
 error.errorMessage.payload
----
+
To access the error code that comes from the Azure service, the expression is: +
`error.muleMessage.typedValue.error.code`
+
image::azure-data-lake-error-handling-setting-up-3.png[Expression to access the error code that comes from the Azure service]
+
To access the error message, the expression is: +
`error.muleMessage.typedValue.error.message`

> image::azure-data-lake-error-handling-setting-up-4.png[Expression to access the error message]

Reviewer: This is all subordinate to the final step?
